 Rename an account – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Rename an account We should sparingly rename a user account, and only do so when it is necessary (e.g. typo in the username or update of their lived name). To rename an individual account, sorry the account with the old name and make a note of why you are changing the username. To run sorry you need to be a root user. Follow the prompts of the script. sudo sorry username_to_rename note -u username_to_rename Then manually create an account using approve . Associate the user's calnetUID manually, and delete callinkOID attribute. You will need to be a root user to do this. Be sure to note the reason and previous username in the new account note file. approve note -u new_username Note When the user uses certain OCF webpage (e.g. password reset) that uses calnetUid to find associated OCF accounts, the user will see their old account in the list of accounts drop-down menu. However, as the old account has been sorried, the user cannot use the old account in any ways. Edit this Page Page History More in this category Accounts Alumni account reset LDAP association Rename an account OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 