 SSHing into Supernova – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In SSHing into Supernova Table of Contents Before you begin Logging in Things you can do on supernova Administration scripts Development and Testing Kubernetes When contributing to the OCF codebase, you will need some way of running and testing your code. Most of our applications cannot be run on a personal machine--they need to be run on OCF infrastructure. For most projects we recommend doing all development from supernova , a server available to all staff. Our Kubernetes server is also accessible from supernova . Before you begin You need to be on staff to log into the server. If you're not sure whether or not you're on staff, try logging in. If this doesn't work, talk to a staff member and we can add you! All are welcome and encouraged to join. Logging in To log in, open a terminal window and type in: ssh username@supernova.ocf.berkeley.edu For more instructions, see the SSH docs . You should replace ssh.ocf.berkeley.edu with supernova.ocf.berkeley.edu . Things you can do on supernova Administration scripts Some scripts, such as ones used to create group accounts and refund printing quotas, are available on supernova . Learn more about these in the scripts section of staff documentation . Development and Testing You can git clone OCF repositories and run them on supernova . An example for ocfweb : git clone https://github.com/ocf/ocfweb # clone the repository cd ocfweb # change directory into the repository ... make changes ... make test # run tests to make sure everything is working make dev # start a development server and see your changes live Kubernetes To access Kubernetes, simply run kubectl commands. See the Kubernetes documentation for more information. Note that staff only have viewing permissions for the cluster. Interested stafferse can request write access to a development namespace by talking to a root staffer. Edit this Page Page History Table of Contents Before you begin Logging in Things you can do on supernova Administration scripts Development and Testing Kubernetes More in this category Procedures Accounts Alumni account reset LDAP association Rename an account Adding users to the HPC cluster Backporting Debian packages Configuring virtual hosting Creating new hosts (servers, desktops) DMCA Editing docs Granting staff privileges Installing updates with apt-dater Live disk resizing Making OCF Google Apps accounts Manually creating XMPP accounts Printing maintenance Process accounting Restarting services SSHing into Supernova SSL certificates Setting up bridging and link aggregation Setting up mdraid on servers User disk quotas OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 