 Email Templates – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Email Templates General email response templates can be found at templates.ocf.berkeley.edu for purposes such as sending requests for DNS to the University hostmaster, responding to virtual host requests, and resetting alumni account passwords. Templates should be used when applicable because they are designed to provide all necessary information while remaining cordial to the recipient. Some templates have variables that should be filled out before copying the template. The template variables will be automatically filled out by entering text into the input boxes above the main text box. Variables can be located in the template by looking for {<variable name>} before filling it out. Adding templates New templates can be added to the website by submitting a pull request to the ocf/templates repo. Template files are found in templates/www/templates . Variables can be added in a template as {<variable name>} . Edit this Page Page History More in this category Tips and tricks .desktoprc Email Templates On your staff VM Installing and running ZNC Running ocfweb ShortURL guide ShortURL table Test accounts Using Twitch and OBS OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 