 News from the staff team – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In News from the staff team We try to keep things running smoothly, but occasionally need to announce service disruptions or other changes. Below is a list of recent updates. Organizational updates Student Organization Subdomain Moratorium 2 years ago The OCF is hiring! 6 years, 4 months ago The OCF is hiring! 7 years, 11 months ago OCF seeking interest in high-performance computing service 8 years ago OCF affirms support for EFF's Electronic Frontier Alliance 8 years, 9 months ago Unveiling a new name for the Open Computing Facility 8 years, 11 months ago Changes to printing policies 9 years ago Recent service status and interruptions Service information is primarily posted to our off-site status blog . Consider bookmarking it for information even when the rest of the OCF is down. Here are some recent updates from it: Planned Outage: All OCF Services, August 14 6 months, 3 weeks ago Planned Outage: OCF Mirrors, Aug. 11 6 months, 3 weeks ago OCF Mirrors Down, Feb 8 ~11AM - Feb 10 9PM 1 year ago Mirrors maintenance, 1/18 23:00 PST 2 years, 1 month ago Multiple mirrors out of date 2 years, 6 months ago Fedora out of sync 2 years, 9 months ago [RESOLVED] Raspbian out of sync 2 years, 11 months ago Emergency mirrors server maintenance today 2 years, 11 months ago Emergency maintenance: hypervisors reboot today 2 years, 11 months ago [Complete, see notes] Mirrors downtime 3/11/2022 - migration to campus DC 2 years, 11 months ago About the Open Computing Facility The OCF is an all-volunteer student organization. Our staff work hard to provide valuable services to the campus community: A spiffy computer lab in 171 MLK Web, application, and email hosting for over 80% of student groups and thousands of individual students. Free printing , used by over 5,000 students per semester. Learn more about the OCF volunteers. OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 