 Join the Staff Team – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In What is the Open Computing Facility? We're a student organization dedicated to providing free computing for all UC Berkeley students, faculty, and staff. We run a super awesome computer lab on southside, have a wicked set of servers for staff to play on, and provide cool services to the Berkeley community. Spring 2025 OCF Onboarding Fill out the interest form below to receive updates! Interest Form Join us at our weekly meetings! We meet every week to talk tech and work on cool projects. All are welcome to join OCF staff, at any point in the semester! Sound interesting? Subscribe to our mailing list for meeting recaps Chat with us on Slack , Discord , Matrix , or IRC Drop by and say hello, or email the staff team See more ways to contribute and get involved OCF Staff Meetings OCF Staff meet to discuss technology, learn from each other, and work on OCF projects. Drop-in visitors are always welcome, especially those interested in joining the staff team! When: Every Wednesday at 7:10pm Where: OCF Computer lab (171 MLK) OCF staff help provide cool services to the Berkeley community. Web & Email Hosting We provide free web and email hosting to more than 50,000 OCF members, including both students and student groups. UNIX Shell Accounts All members get their own shell account on our powerful Debian-based servers. (Staff get their own private VMs!) Computer Lab & Printing Our computer lab has free printing, scanners, mechanical keyboards, and blazing fast computers running Linux! We have a spiffy computer lab on southside. Create an account and drop by! Our computer lab, located in 171 MLK Student Union , features high-res scanners, free printing, and high-end desktops with mechanical keyboards and GTX graphics cards, all running Debian GNU/Linux. Our lab and servers run free and open-source software, such as: Joining the OCF is an awesome way to learn! We love talking tech and learning new things. We use our weekly board meetings and staff hours not just to make decisions, but also to learn more about *nix and free software. We're totally open and super-inclusive! Our members have a wide range of majors and technical backgrounds. There are tons of ways to learn and have fun! We've got a perfect sandbox to poke around. In addition to our powerful servers and desktops, staff get access to their own private server to hoze. We meet every Wednesday at 7:10pm in the lab . We hope to see you there! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 