 Upcoming Student Technology Fund Renewal Vote – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Upcoming Student Technology Fund Renewal Vote The Student Technology Fund The Student Technology Fund (STF) equitably and transparently stewards use of student fees in support of technology initiatives that advance undergraduate, graduate, and professional school students’ academic and co-curricular experiences at UC Berkeley. STF provides funding for: Free software for all students on campus, including Zoom Pro, Adobe CC, Microsoft Office etc. Projects like the Student Technology Equity Program (STEP), the Student Tech Services Helpdesk, the Open Computing Facility (OCF) , and much more. Without the STF, students would need to acquire licenses for much of the software they use on a daily basis, and STF-funded projects would need to seek alternate funding (or become defunct). The Student Technology Fund was voted into place by students in 2014. Unfortunately in the 2021 ASUC elections, the STF failed to meet the required threshold to pass. STF's Renewal Efforts Students are leading STF's renewal efforts through an independent non-University entity called the STF Referendum Renewal Group (RReG). To date, there is no known opposition group to the STF's renewal. Read More Student Technology Fund Open Computing Facility at Student Technology Fund Student Technology Fund's impact STF Renewal on the Ballot Edit this Page Page History More in this category Communications OCF Communication, 19 June 2020 Upcoming Student Technology Fund Renewal Vote OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 