 Staff Hours – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Staff Hours Have questions? Drop by for help from a friendly volunteer staffer! OCF staff members hold regular drop-in staff hours to provide assistance with account issues or with OCF services. We're always happy to help troubleshoot account or service issues! Keep in mind the OCF volunteers sometimes have last-minute conflicts, so it's a good idea to check this page for cancellations. Staff hours are now in person! Visit ocf.io/lab for directions. If you need online staff hours, please email help@ocf.berkeley.edu . Monday 11:00AM - 2:00PM Joe Wang General Manager Wednesday 11:00AM - 1:00PM Joe Wang General Manager Wednesday 4:00PM - 6:00PM Joe Wang General Manager Friday 3:00PM - 4:00PM Joe Wang General Manager Open Computing Facility Lab The OCF lab is located on the ground level of MLK Student Union (entrance on Lower Sproul), Room 171. You will need to scan your student ID when you enter MLK. All staff hours are held in the lab—feel free to drop by! Need help now? If it really can't wait, you can also send us an email . (It'd be cool if you tried to come in, though—we're students too!) OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 