 LDAP association – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In LDAP association New individual accounts have a calnetUid attribute in LDAP which is used for changing passwords online , querying CalNet when running `check` , and producing aggregate counts of the number of members by university affiliation. Similarly, group accounts have a callinkOid attribute. Old accounts, especially if previously disabled, may be missing the calnetUID or callinkOid attribute. Please add it when enabling accounts. If unknown or a group other than a registered student organization, set it to 0 . The 0 is still useful for distinguishing between individuals and groups based on the attribute name. Occasionally, it is useful to allow someone to reset a group account password online when they are not a signatory, namely when the account is not for a registered student organization. This is done by associating the user's CalNet ID with the account record in LDAP. Open the LDAP record for editing. $ kinit <staffusername>/admin ldapvi uid=<username> After looking up the user's UID in the University directory , add it to the record with a line like this: calnetUid: 6081 If the mail attribute is missing, but you know of a contact email address for the account, please add it as well. Save the file to update LDAP. Now, the user can change the account password online . CalNet association is only meant to be temporary and must be reverted once the password has been reset by removing this line. It can cause problems with individual/group acount detection in scripts if an account has both callinkOid and calnetUid fields. If an account is associated in an RT ticket, leave the ticket open until the password has been reset and the account disassociated. Edit this Page Page History More in this category Accounts Alumni account reset LDAP association Rename an account OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 