 ocf-tv: connect to the tv or modify the volume – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In ocf-tv: connect to the tv or modify the volume The usage of ocf-tv looks like: ocf-tv [-h] [-H HOST] {connect,volume,mute,stop-tunnel,tunnel-audio} If you provide no arguments to ocf-tv the default behavior is that it will start a VNC session to the TV. If you do not specify the host it will use the TV by default. ocf-tv connect will open up a VNC window using xvncviewer to the host. The TV uses i3wm , a tiling window manager, so if you are unsure of how to use it read the linked documentation. If you'd like to just change the volume on the host, you can use the volume or mute options to change the pulseaudio volume level. ocf-tv volume 50 sets the remote volume to 50% (acceptable values in [0,150]) and mute does what you might expect. If you'd like to tunnel audio playing on your local desktop to the TV (for example, so you don't have to manipulate YouTube over VNC), you can start the tunnel via ocf-tv tunnel-audio from any desktop, and similarly, use ocf-tv stop-tunnel to close the tunnel and resume local-only playback. Edit this Page Page History More in this category Scripts approve: record an OCF group account request check: get details about an OCF user checkacct: find accounts by full name chpass: reset a user's password economode: turn economode on/off on the printers how: view the source of a script lab-wakeup: wake up suspended desktops migrate-vm: migrate VMs between hosts note: add notes to a user account ocf-tv: connect to the tv or modify the volume paper: view and modify print quotas pdf-open: unf*&^ bad PDFs if they won't print right signat: check signatory status sorry: disable an OCF account ssh-list: run command via SSH on many hosts simultaneously unsorry: re-enable a sorried account OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 