 Command reference – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Command reference Shell interface Sorry! Your browser can't display this window. Welcome to the live command reference! Here you can securely access our login server via SSH and run commands to manage your account, edit a website, or work on our server. Below is a list of account management commands with a brief description of what they do and how to use them. Simply type in a command and hit enter to run it. To log out, run the command exit . OCF commands Key: ARGUMENT [optional] Command Description how SCRIPT Shows the source code for a script makehttp Puts a shortcut to your web directory in your home folder makemysql Generates a new random password for your database, creating the database if it does not exist paper Shows how many pages you can currently print update-email Prompts you to set a contact email address for your OCF account File commands For convenience, here is a very basic listing of commands to manage files. For a more complete listing, see for example Wikipedia . For more information on a specific command, run man COMMAND . Key: ARGUMENT [optional] Command Description cd DIRECTORY Changes the current directory to a new one cp [-r] SOURCE DEST Copies a file. The -r option allows for copying directories. less FILE Lets you view the contents of a text file ls [FILE] Lists information about files and directories mkdir DIRECTORY Creates a new directory nano FILE Lets you edit a text file with a basic interface mv SOURCE DEST Moves or renames a file or folder rm [-r] FILE Deletes a file. The -r option allows for deleting non-empty directories. rmdir DIRECTORY Deletes an empty directory. Safer than rm -r . OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 