 Web hosting – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Web hosting Table of Contents Uploading Files Additional details Supported languages FAQ My public_html directory is missing, how do I fix that? via the web interface via SSH All accounts include hosting with a web address at: https://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/~user (canonical version) https://ocf.io/user (shorter version) where user is the account name. Groups, faculty, and staff may also request a virtual host for another domain (e.g., group.studentorg.berkeley.edu). Uploading Files Upload files to your web space the same way you upload files to your OCF account (typically SFTP if used remotely). The only difference is that files for your web space are placed in your public_html directory. Additional details The web server runs Apache 2.4 with FastCGI (mod_fcgid) and suEXEC. Access and error logs are accessible in /opt/httpd using SSH . The web server itself runs as a dedicated user. If your .htaccess file is not world-readable (e.g., chmod 644 ), the web server will return the error "401 Forbidden". PHP/CGI/FastCGI scripts are executed as your user, so they do not need to be world-readable. If they contain sensitive information (such as database passwords), you should make them private (e.g., chmod 600 or chmod 700 ). Both individual hosting and student group hosting are done entirely over HTTPS. Supported languages PHP 7.4 Perl 5.32.1 Python 3.7 and 3.9; Django; Flask 1.1.2 Ruby 2.7; Rails 6.0.3.7 NodeJS 12 Other flavors of the day may work but are not currently supported. We may be able to install additional packages on request, but will generally advise you to use alternatives instead (such as installing in a virtualenv or inside your home directory). FAQ My public_html directory is missing, how do I fix that? We automatically create the public_html symlink for all new accounts, but it's possible that it was accidentally removed (or that you have an older account from before we started the practice). Keep in mind that just recreating the directory is not sufficient; it must be a symbolic link to your actual web space. If you simply make a directory named public_html , it won't be used for your website. Here are two easy ways to re-create the symlink: via the web interface Open the web commands interface in your web browser. Select the "makehttp" option. Enter your OCF username and password, and choose "Run command". You should see something like this in the output, assuming you entered your username and password correctly: public_html folder has been created successfully. via SSH Login to your account via SSH . After you go past all system messages, you will see a command prompt: user@tsunami:~$ At this prompt, type makehttp . This command will create your web directory. Here's a sample command output: user@tsunami:~$ makehttp Your public_html directory is ready to use! Edit this Page Page History Table of Contents Uploading Files Additional details Supported languages FAQ My public_html directory is missing, how do I fix that? via the web interface via SSH More in this category Services Account Account policies Content removal policy Computer lab Lab reservation policy Printing Database (MySQL) Email High performance computing Slurm Mastodon Remote shell and file transfer (SSH/SFTP) Command reference Software Mirrors Virtual hosting (group.studentorg.berkeley.edu) Hosting badges Mail virtual hosting for student groups Using Gmail with mail virtual hosting Subdomain migration FAQ Web application hosting Node.js Python (Django, Flask, etc.) Ruby on Rails Web hosting Backups/Archiving Django Flask Jekyll PHP Ruby on Rails WordPress XMPP OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 