 Slack – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Slack Table of Contents Join the OCF Slack Workspace Other important info Everything is public I can't log in! List of Major OCF Channels List of Minor OCF channels Optional: Using wee-slack We also offer IRC as a chat service. If that is what you were looking for, head over to our page on IRC . Join the OCF Slack Workspace Create an OCF account if you don't yet have one. Go to the OCF Slack workspace and click the "If you have an @ocf.berkeley.edu email address , you can create an account." button. Enter your OCF username in the box, this should send an email to your Berkeley email. If you don't recieve an email, please contact a staff member for assistance. Click the link in your Berkeley email and follow the instructions to complete setup. We strongly recommend setting your display name to your OCF username for consistency. Join some channels! Other important info Everything is public When using Slack, please keep in mind that the channels are connected to our IRC server , which is open to the whole world. Anyone could be keeping a log of what is said, so please don't say anything that you wouldn't want to be public! I can't log in! When logging in, don't use your @berkeley.edu email. Instead, use your OCF email address , which is <OCF username>@ocf.berkeley.edu . If you're still having trouble, you can always reset your password. List of Major OCF Channels #announcements : Low volume announcements channel. Turn on notifications for messages in this channel (instructions for desktop and mobile )! #rebuild : Technical discussion #administrivia : Administrative discussion #henlo : Memes and off-topic social chat with current staff #ocf : General alumni/staff off-topic hangout channel and non-OCF tech discussion #rebuild-spam : Information on Github changes/PRs (spammy) #test : Actual spam List of Minor OCF channels #decal-general : DeCal student chat #*-comm : Channels for committee discussion #cs162-fa19 , cs170-fa19 , and others: Per-class discussions #xcf : XCF discussion Optional: Using wee-slack Note: This section is targeted at IRC users who would like to access Slack using the weechat IRC client. While our IRC network is bridged with Slack, some users prefer to use weechat to connect directly to Slack. We already have weechat installed on tsunami , so simply follow the instructions provided by the wee-slack team . Just make sure you are in a python virtual environment before running the command: python pip install websocket-client We describe setting up a virtual environment here . As a general recommendation, you'll probably want to leave wee-slack running in a detached tmux session . Edit this Page Page History Table of Contents Join the OCF Slack Workspace Other important info Everything is public I can't log in! List of Major OCF Channels List of Minor OCF channels Optional: Using wee-slack More in this category Contact us Internet Relay Chat (IRC) Slack OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 