 Installing updates with apt-dater – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Installing updates with apt-dater Installing updates requires root ( ocfroot group). Besides that, anybody should feel free to install updates at any time. Generally it is quite safe, though you might want to keep an eye on important things to ensure they start again after being updated (MySQL, LDAP, and Kerberos are the common offenders). apt-dater We install updates using apt-dater . We wrap it in a script that builds a list of hosts from LDAP and sends a summary email to root. To install updates: Make sure the desktops are not suspended , and that you aren't trying to install updates near a 15-minute boundary when the desktops auto-suspend. See lab-wakeup to wake up the desktops prior to updating. From supernova , run: sudo apt-dater-ocf This will send an email to root with a list of packages to be updated. Glance over the list to make sure there are no obvious problems (for example, if it's trying to upgrade an entire system or install every available backport, which has actually happened before). Once apt-dater opens, proceed to the next step. Select the "Updates pending" row at the top, and hit u . You'll be asked if you wish to upgrade the entire group. Press y to confirm. All the hosts will now be in the "Sessions" category. Expand it (select then hit enter), then attach to each host one-by-one (hit a when you're over a host). You'll attach to a tmux session where the updates are being installed. In each session, wait for the updates to be installed, then press C-b q . If "errors" are found, you'll be asked to review them before proceeding. These are full tmux sessions, so you can, for example, use Ctrl-B, D to detach if your current session is taking a while. Edit this Page Page History More in this category Procedures Accounts Alumni account reset LDAP association Rename an account Adding users to the HPC cluster Backporting Debian packages Configuring virtual hosting Creating new hosts (servers, desktops) DMCA Editing docs Granting staff privileges Installing updates with apt-dater Live disk resizing Making OCF Google Apps accounts Manually creating XMPP accounts Printing maintenance Process accounting Restarting services SSHing into Supernova SSL certificates Setting up bridging and link aggregation Setting up mdraid on servers User disk quotas OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 