 OCF affirms support for EFF's Electronic Frontier Alliance – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In OCF affirms support for EFF's Electronic Frontier Alliance Board of Directors vote to support Electronic Frontier Alliance May 12, 2016 Back in March, the Electronic Frontier Foundation launched the Electronic Frontier Alliance , designed to bring together groups which support digital freedom, security, privacy, creativity, and access to knowledge. The Open Computing Facility, a student organization founded in 1989 at the University of California, Berkeley, believes strongly in the mission of the Electronic Frontier Alliance and of the EFF in general. Since its inception, the OCF's all-volunteer staff base has worked hard to provide free and fair access to technology at UC Berkeley. We hope to help others recognize the importance of digital rights, and their relation to free and open-source software. About the Open Computing Facility The OCF is an all-volunteer student organization. Our staff work hard to provide valuable services to the campus community: A spiffy computer lab in 171 MLK Web, application, and email hosting for over 80% of student groups and thousands of individual students. Free printing , used by over 5,000 students per semester. Our volunteers work within their limited budget to try to offer valuable services. Learn more about the OCF volunteers. OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 