 Banning policy – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Banning policy As amended by the Board of Directors, December 3, 2018. Any member of the OCF staff may propose to ban a user from the OCF for willful violation of OCF policies. Banned users may not enter the OCF lab or use any OCF services. Once a user is proposed to be banned, all staff with any involvement with the user will be called to the next Board of Directors meeting, and those present shall testify. The Board of Directors may then decide to ban the user with a ⅔ majority vote. If the violation of OCF policies is additionally a violation of the UC Berkeley Student Code of Conduct, the GM will submit a report to the Center of Student Conduct. If the user is banned, they shall be promptly notified of the ban and given a chance to appeal the ban at one of the next three future Board of Directors meetings. At that meeting, they will be asked to explain their actions. The Board of Directors then may decide with a ⅔ majority vote by secret ballot to uphold the ban; if the ban is not upheld, it shall be rescinded. Edit this Page Page History More in this category Joining the OCF Banning policy Eligibility OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 