 Email – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Email Email sent to your username @ocf.berkeley.edu (e.g. username@ocf.berkeley.edu ) will be forwarded to a contact email address of your choosing. To configure a forwarding address, log in via SSH and enter the update-email command to view or update your contact email address. Note that you are required to keep your contact address up-to-date for as long as you continue to use your account. While we do not proactively disable accounts without emails, if we need to contact you for any reason and cannot, your account will be disabled. This is true for both individual and group accounts. Student groups We provide email virtual hosting for student groups who have a virtual host (e.g. mygroup.studentorg.berkeley.edu). See here for instructions on requesting email hosting and configuring email addresses. Individual accounts Mail service for individual accounts was discontinued over summer 2014, but we are still offering email forwarding for individual accounts indefinitely. Note that sending mail from your individual OCF account is no longer possible. Edit this Page Page History More in this category Services Account Account policies Content removal policy Computer lab Lab reservation policy Printing Database (MySQL) Email High performance computing Slurm Mastodon Remote shell and file transfer (SSH/SFTP) Command reference Software Mirrors Virtual hosting (group.studentorg.berkeley.edu) Hosting badges Mail virtual hosting for student groups Using Gmail with mail virtual hosting Subdomain migration FAQ Web application hosting Node.js Python (Django, Flask, etc.) Ruby on Rails Web hosting Backups/Archiving Django Flask Jekyll PHP Ruby on Rails WordPress XMPP OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 