 paper: view and modify print quotas – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In paper: view and modify print quotas Table of Contents Introduction Usage Scenarios View help (shows possible commands and arguments) View balances Issue refunds (change user balances) Introduction The paper script is used to list and modify user print quotas. When users print documents, their print quota is updated in a central database on mysql that is also checked to make sure users have enough print quota before sending their document(s) to the printer. This database can be queried and modified by the paper script, which internally uses ocflib to access the database. The paper script can be used from anywhere to list pages remaining per day and per semester, but can currently only be used to change print quotas by issuing refunds from supernova . Usage Scenarios View help (shows possible commands and arguments) $ paper -h $ paper view -h $ paper refund -h View balances For yourself: $ paper For other users: $ paper view <user> Issue refunds (change user balances) Refunds can be positive or negative, so you can add or subtract quotas using this method. By default they are positive, so you are refunding them for pages wrongly used. Make sure to surround the reason in quotes if it contains spaces, otherwise the command will not work. $ paper refund --pages <num_pages> --reason "<reason>" <user> Edit this Page Page History Table of Contents Introduction Usage Scenarios View help (shows possible commands and arguments) View balances Issue refunds (change user balances) More in this category Scripts approve: record an OCF group account request check: get details about an OCF user checkacct: find accounts by full name chpass: reset a user's password economode: turn economode on/off on the printers how: view the source of a script lab-wakeup: wake up suspended desktops migrate-vm: migrate VMs between hosts note: add notes to a user account ocf-tv: connect to the tv or modify the volume paper: view and modify print quotas pdf-open: unf*&^ bad PDFs if they won't print right signat: check signatory status sorry: disable an OCF account ssh-list: run command via SSH on many hosts simultaneously unsorry: re-enable a sorried account OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 