 Process accounting – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Process accounting Sometimes we want to figure out how resources on a server have been used recently. For example, we might want to find which user was using tons of CPU on the web server. Process accounting lets us look at limited historical data for that. In particular, process accounting logs what programs have been executed by what user at what time and for how long. Program arguments are not logged, which is good for helping ensure privacy. Useful commands Some useful commands are below; see man sa for many more options. List recent commands by user List programs a user has run, along with timestamps and execution time. lastcomm $user Show sorted CPU usage of all users (past day) Shows how much processing time each user has used, sorted by the seventh column (percentage of CPU minutes). re is real minutes, cp is CPU minutes (i.e. the time actually spent working). sa -m -c | sort -n -k 7 Edit this Page Page History More in this category Procedures Accounts Alumni account reset LDAP association Rename an account Adding users to the HPC cluster Backporting Debian packages Configuring virtual hosting Creating new hosts (servers, desktops) DMCA Editing docs Granting staff privileges Installing updates with apt-dater Live disk resizing Making OCF Google Apps accounts Manually creating XMPP accounts Printing maintenance Process accounting Restarting services SSHing into Supernova SSL certificates Setting up bridging and link aggregation Setting up mdraid on servers User disk quotas OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 