 Computer lab – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Computer lab The OCF computer lab consists of 29 workstations running Debian Linux . They are maintained by OCF volunteer staff who operate the servers, workstations, and networking gear that helps the lab run. The computer lab contains 3 scanners, 3 standing desks, and a Blu-ray/DVD/CD reader/writer. OCF computers include free and open-source software such as LibreOffice (similar to Microsoft Office), GIMP (similar to Adobe Photoshop), and more. For details about printing in the lab, see Printing . Location The OCF computer lab is located in 171 MLK Student Union. It can be accessed through the main MLK building or via the tunnel by the stairs between Upper and Lower Sproul. To enter the lab, bring a valid student identification card; you will be asked to show it. Hours Please note that our hours are all Berkeley Time, as the front desk staff are student employees and may have classes before opening times. Hours for the next week are: Monday, Mar 03 9am–8pm Tuesday, Mar 04 9am–7pm Wednesday, Mar 05 9am–6pm Thursday, Mar 06 9am–7pm Friday, Mar 07 9am–8pm Saturday, Mar 08 12pm–6pm Sunday, Mar 09 Closed All Day Regular Weekly Hours The regular OCF hours are: Sunday Closed All Day Monday 9am–8pm Tuesday 9am–7pm Wednesday 9am–6pm Thursday 9am–7pm Friday 9am–8pm Saturday 12pm–6pm Need help from an OCF staffer? OCF staff are student volunteers who are usually not present in the lab . The front desk staff can help with basic troubleshooting, but for technical or organization-related questions, it would be better to either chat with an OCF volunteer staffer during staff hours or contact us via email . Having trouble finding the entrance? Here's how to get there, starting from Upper Sproul: OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 