 Staff privileges – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Staff privileges Table of Contents Staff /root principal Technical Managers ocfroot group /admin principal Other privileges OCF staff are members of the OCF who contribute their time as volunteers, and are given responsibilities and privileges to maintain and improve the OCF's infrastructure. There are many powers granted to staff, which for simplification have been consolidated into a tiered structure. Each tier includes the privileges of the preceding tiers. Staff privileges are distinct from the Board of Directors and Officers, which hold legislative and executive powers respectively, although in practice virtually all Directors are staffers. Staff group ocfstaff receive staff@ocf mail (including staff discussions and announcements) can process group account requests can access and process Request Tracker tickets receive wheel@ocf mail (including discussions with technical jargon) can change print quotas can login to all servers can edit shared staff files such as User_Info and motd (message of the day on public servers) can directly edit the OCF website and commit to some other repositories, such as slackbridge, templates, and utils, and are expected to maintain them must hold staff hours , alongside other staffers must join a staffer family /root principal In order to reset user passwords, staff must possess a /root principal. Before RSOs became able to reset their passwords online in 2015, this principal was widely given out. Since then, it has become much less necessary to have for staff hours. It is now given out as needed. Technical Managers group ocfroot The most technical and "on-call" staff members are given sudo access (root privileges) on all servers and the ability to modify LDAP/Kerberos directly. The Site Manager(s) and Deputy Site Manager(s) are always Technical Managers. Other Deputy Managers and the General Manager(s) often happen to be Technical Managers as well. ocfroot group You must be in the ocfroot LDAP group in order to use sudo on most servers, other than desktops and your own staff VM. The ability to become root via sudo on machines other than your staff VM requires the existence of a /root principal (see above). /admin principal In order to modify LDAP or Kerberos, staff must possess a /admin principal and it must be granted Kerberos-editing rights in Puppet . Other privileges Technical Managers also have the following privileges: Being in the Admin group in the OCF org on GitHub, which grants the ability to directly commit to any repository Access to the RT admin interface Admin privileges to the OCF status blog Some Technical Managers, particularly the DSMs and SMs, may additionally have the following: Being an Owner of the GitHub OCF org Super admin status on Google Apps Chanop status on IRC Services Root Adminship for Anope Access to the firewall configuration interface Knowledge of the root password Access to NetReg Edit this Page Page History Table of Contents Staff /root principal Technical Managers ocfroot group /admin principal Other privileges More in this category Staff documentation Additional documentation Getting Involved Infrastructure Backups Debian Buster upgrade External firewall Git Internal firewalls Jenkins KVM/Libvirt Kerberos Kubernetes LDAP Mail Virtual hosted mail Managed switches Munin Printhost Prometheus Puppet Request Tracker Servers Procedures Accounts Alumni account reset LDAP association Rename an account Adding users to the HPC cluster Backporting Debian packages Configuring virtual hosting Creating new hosts (servers, desktops) DMCA Editing docs Granting staff privileges Installing updates with apt-dater Live disk resizing Making OCF Google Apps accounts Manually creating XMPP accounts Printing maintenance Process accounting Restarting services SSHing into Supernova SSL certificates Setting up bridging and link aggregation Setting up mdraid on servers User disk quotas Rebuild Request Tracker Scripts approve: record an OCF group account request check: get details about an OCF user checkacct: find accounts by full name chpass: reset a user's password economode: turn economode on/off on the printers how: view the source of a script lab-wakeup: wake up suspended desktops migrate-vm: migrate VMs between hosts note: add notes to a user account ocf-tv: connect to the tv or modify the volume paper: view and modify print quotas pdf-open: unf*&^ bad PDFs if they won't print right signat: check signatory status sorry: disable an OCF account ssh-list: run command via SSH on many hosts simultaneously unsorry: re-enable a sorried account Staff mailing lists Staff policies Keycard policy Lab reservation policy (staff expectations) Staff policy Staff privileges Starter Tasks PR Completion Record Tech talks Tips and tricks .desktoprc Email Templates On your staff VM Installing and running ZNC Running ocfweb ShortURL guide ShortURL table Test accounts Using Twitch and OBS i3wm OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 