 Editing docs – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Editing docs The OCF's documentation (formerly known as "the wiki") is a part of the OCF website built with Markdown where we provide technical support for users and documentation for fellow staff. Overview Docs is currently a part of the OCF's main website, known as ocfweb . Markdown syntax is parsed by Mistune with syntax highlighting done by Pygments . We use a wiki-like syntax for making links within documentation and the website, e.g. from Virtual Hosting : All virtual hosts on the OCF must include an [[OCF banner|doc services/vhost/badges]] on the front page that links to the [[OCF home page|home]]. Editing docs Edits to the documentation are made via the OCF website's Git repository on GitHub. The editing process is like our other Git workflows: Fork the repository on GitHub . Make changes on a new branch. Push your changes. Make a pull request. Once you make a pull request, it will automatically be tested by Jenkins , the build server. Jenkins will also deploy your changes once they have been merged. For simple changes, you can just click "Edit this Page" in the sidebar. This will open the file in GitHub, and walk you through the steps for either commiting on master or making a pull request. For more complicated ones, the repository's readme file has instructions for testing and building the website so you can preview your edits before making the commit. Also see our page on Git for further info on working with OCF repos. Edit this Page Page History More in this category Procedures Accounts Alumni account reset LDAP association Rename an account Adding users to the HPC cluster Backporting Debian packages Configuring virtual hosting Creating new hosts (servers, desktops) DMCA Editing docs Granting staff privileges Installing updates with apt-dater Live disk resizing Making OCF Google Apps accounts Manually creating XMPP accounts Printing maintenance Process accounting Restarting services SSHing into Supernova SSL certificates Setting up bridging and link aggregation Setting up mdraid on servers User disk quotas OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 