 Printing – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Printing The OCF offers a certain amount of printing to individual members. You don't have to request a new account each semester - the quota is refreshed at the start of each semester. Printing is currently limited to: 200 pages per semester 20 pages per day Please note: Each printed side of a sheet counts as a page. Jobs take time to process proportional to the job size. If you submit a large job, please be patient while the print server processes it. Remaining quota To see how many pages you have left for the day and semester, run the paper command over the web or in the shell . Print quota is also displayed at the top of the screen when using a lab computer. Check your print balance regularly! Printing refunds Pages are not normally refunded, except in cases of technical issues. In this case, you should talk with the OCF Operations Staff at the front desk for a refund. Edit this Page Page History More in this category Computer lab Lab reservation policy Printing OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 