 Keycard policy – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Keycard policy Table of Contents Keycard access After hours policy Abuse of privileges Amendments to this policy As promulgated by the GMs on August 18, 2017. Keycard access Keycard access is given much like root, but requires approval from both GMs and SMs. To be eligible for keycard access, you must fulfill the following criteria: A Site Manager/General Manager must be able to recognize you in person You must have been a staffer for at least a year already, but this may be waived at the discretion of the GM/SM You must demonstrate a concrete, actual need for keycard privileges and concrete examples of helpful activity in the OCF Keycard access, once given, can be revoked at the discretion of SMs or GMs. After hours policy Staffers with keycard access to the lab are free to enter and leave as they please. In contrast, staffers without keycard access may only be in the lab when there is someone with keycard access in the lab as well. More specifically, no staffer without keycard access is permitted within the lab if there is no one with keycard also within the lab as well. As circumstances may result in staffers with keycard having to step out of the lab for short periods of time, a general rule of thumb will be that if those with keycard will return in a 30 minute time frame, non-keycarded staffers are free to stay. OCF staffers are permitted to bring in as many guests after hours as is considered reasonable. Note that this is not a right, but a privilege and as such can be revoked if SMs/GMs feel that guests are being disruptive. Any non-staffer in the lab after hours must be logged in the OCF guest sign-in sheet, and failure to do so may be considered abuse of keycard privileges. Abuse of privileges Failure to abide with the policies described above will be defined as abuse of keycard privileges. Since there is no good way to formalize disciplinary actions as severity of infractions can range from simple forgetfulness to full-fledged theft, abuse may result in consequences including, but not limited to, loss of root privileges, being banned from the OCF, and/or being referred to the Office of Student Conduct or University Police. Amendments to this policy This policy can only be amended by Cabinet consensus (or by BoD). Staffers must promptly be made aware of any amendments to this policies. Edit this Page Page History Table of Contents Keycard access After hours policy Abuse of privileges Amendments to this policy More in this category Staff policies Keycard policy Lab reservation policy (staff expectations) Staff policy OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 