 Mail – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Mail anthrax is our mail server. It is used for sending and receiving all OCF mail, excluding staff use of Google Apps. Mail sent by users, websites, virtual hosts, or basically anything else goes through here. Received mail to @ocf.berkeley.edu is forwarded to the address in the mail attribute of the LDAP account entry (or the aliases table ) or rejected; nothing is stored. Received virtual host mail is forwarded to the address stored in a MySQL table. Outgoing virtual host mail is also via anthrax, which uses SMTP authentication (passwords checked against crypt(3) 'd passwords in a MySQL table). There's a whole page with more details about vhost mail. Mail originating anywhere inside the OCF relays through anthrax. External relations We maintain relations with external groups for two reasons. To monitor our mail server reputation and prevent outgoing mail from being blocked by external service providers. To monitor abuse and disable compromised accounts. When our IP addresses change, we need to update our registrations. We have feedback loops with AOL (out-of-date) Comcast (out-of-date) Cox (out-of-date) FastMail (out-of-date) Microsoft (Junk Email Reporting Agreement, 2013-03-06) (out-of-date) Rackspace (out-of-date) RoadRunner (out-of-date) Yahoo (out-of-date) We are whitelisted by AOL (out-of-date) DNSWL (out-of-date) Verizon (out-of-date) We are also registered with abuse.net SpamCop (ISP account set to receive summary reports) Edit this Page Page History More in this category Infrastructure Backups Debian Buster upgrade External firewall Git Internal firewalls Jenkins KVM/Libvirt Kerberos Kubernetes LDAP Mail Virtual hosted mail Managed switches Munin Printhost Prometheus Puppet Request Tracker Servers OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 