 Granting staff privileges – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Granting staff privileges Table of Contents Adding people to groups ocfstaff ocfroot Granting IRC chanop status Granting firewall access Adding people to groups ocfstaff If you have root privileges, you can add or remove people from ocfstaff by editing the group in LDAP: $ kinit you/admin you/admin@OCF.BERKELEY.EDU's Password: $ ldapvi cn=ocfstaff Then add or remove the appropriate memberUid attribute. ocfroot Before giving anyone root privileges, make sure to obtain authorization from the SM. Adding or removing people from ocfroot is similar to modifying ocfstaff . However, if you are adding someone to root staff, in addition to modifying LDAP, you will also have to create their /root and /admin principals (if those don't already exist). For example, to create the /admin principal, you would do: $ kadmin kadmin> add otherstaffer/admin you/admin@OCF.BERKELEY.EDU's Password: Max ticket life [1 day]: Max renewable life [1 week]: Principal expiration time [never]: Password expiration time [never]: Attributes []: Policy [default]: otherstaffer/admin@OCF.BERKELEY.EDU's Password: Verify password - otherstaffer/admin@OCF.BERKELEY.EDU's Password: At the very first prompt, you are prompted for your password. It's safe to accept the defaults for the next few prompts. The last two prompts should be filled in by the new root staffer; it will become the password for their /root or /admin principal. After you've created these principals, you'll need to grant them powers in the Kerberos ACL file in Puppet . Also add the new root staffer to the Admin team in our GitHub org and grant them RT admin privileges. Granting IRC chanop status TODO Granting firewall access In order to gain access to the firewall, it is necessary to email someone from the ASUC Student Union to ask them to fill out the Telecom Shopping Cart on your behalf. Send them an email with the CalNet IDs of the people you want to add to the firewall, and have an existing firewall administrator authorize the request. As of Fall 2017, the Facilities Coordinator has worked to get new people added to the firewall, although it is likely that this process will change in Spring/Fall 2018 when the firewall is changed as part of the bSecure project. Edit this Page Page History Table of Contents Adding people to groups ocfstaff ocfroot Granting IRC chanop status Granting firewall access More in this category Procedures Accounts Alumni account reset LDAP association Rename an account Adding users to the HPC cluster Backporting Debian packages Configuring virtual hosting Creating new hosts (servers, desktops) DMCA Editing docs Granting staff privileges Installing updates with apt-dater Live disk resizing Making OCF Google Apps accounts Manually creating XMPP accounts Printing maintenance Process accounting Restarting services SSHing into Supernova SSL certificates Setting up bridging and link aggregation Setting up mdraid on servers User disk quotas OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 