 Making OCF Google Apps accounts – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Making OCF Google Apps accounts The OCF has its own Google Apps deployment, which we mainly use for GDrive and GMail. While it's possible to use Calnet accounts for these (ocf.berkeley.edu emails redirect to Calnet by default), most active staffers choose to have a dedicated account because: It allows for nicer integration with our Google Drive folders It makes it easier to send emails from the ocf.berkeley.edu domain, which is good if you want to send an email while representing the OCF It can be useful to have a separation between OCF and Calnet accounts. Making an account Google Apps accounts are available upon request for OCF staff members, and are granted at SM discretion. Upon getting one, staffers should be aware that OCF emails will be sent to the new account instead of the Calnet account that they're used to. Making a new account requires Google Admin privileges: Go to admin.google.com, click on the "Users" section of the Admin panel, and press the '+' button. Fill in the first and last name of the user, and make sure their email address matches their OCF username. Update the user's mail attribute in LDAP to use Google Apps: kinit you/admin uid=usernamehere . Change it to usernamehere@g.ocf.berkeley.edu . The g. in the domain is critical; omitting it can cause email delivery loops in our system! Edit this Page Page History More in this category Procedures Accounts Alumni account reset LDAP association Rename an account Adding users to the HPC cluster Backporting Debian packages Configuring virtual hosting Creating new hosts (servers, desktops) DMCA Editing docs Granting staff privileges Installing updates with apt-dater Live disk resizing Making OCF Google Apps accounts Manually creating XMPP accounts Printing maintenance Process accounting Restarting services SSHing into Supernova SSL certificates Setting up bridging and link aggregation Setting up mdraid on servers User disk quotas OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 