 unsorry: re-enable a sorried account – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In unsorry: re-enable a sorried account Introduction For various reasons, we've had to disable accounts. Some for weak passwords, some for security vulnerabilities, or myriad other reasons. If an account is sorried , once you've made sure the original problem has been resolved (you can check User_Info via check ) you can unsorry their account and let them log in again. unsorry will remove the user from the sorry group, re-enable a login shell, and generally allow them to use their account again. Occasionally more than simply unsorry may be necessary depending on changes in the infrastructure. unsorry should be run on supernova. Usage/Example $ sudo unsorry username It may also be necessary to run nscd -i passwd on tsunami . Make sure to document all sorry ing and unsorry ing using note Edit this Page Page History More in this category Scripts approve: record an OCF group account request check: get details about an OCF user checkacct: find accounts by full name chpass: reset a user's password economode: turn economode on/off on the printers how: view the source of a script lab-wakeup: wake up suspended desktops migrate-vm: migrate VMs between hosts note: add notes to a user account ocf-tv: connect to the tv or modify the volume paper: view and modify print quotas pdf-open: unf*&^ bad PDFs if they won't print right signat: check signatory status sorry: disable an OCF account ssh-list: run command via SSH on many hosts simultaneously unsorry: re-enable a sorried account OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 