 pdf-open: unf*&^ bad PDFs if they won't print right – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In pdf-open: unf*&^ bad PDFs if they won't print right Introduction The pdf-open script is used when lab users attempt to print PDFs that our printers don't like for myriad reasons. The easiest solution is to rasterize the PDF and send it for printing again, hoping the printer gods are merciful. Examples of PDFs that commonly fail include many Econ 136 and Bio 1B papers, PDFs with strange images or scanned components in them, and things people try to print straight from Gmail attachment viewer. If a user comes asking why their paper isn't printing right, first download the PDF, then run pdf-open $pdf_file . Don't forget the hyphen, and make sure the filename doesn't have any spaces or weird characters in it. After re-rasterizing the file, Evince will open, and you can start a new print job from there. Monitor the job's progress in printhost.ocf.berkeley.edu to ensure the job survives. You may refund printing credits to the user in case they've gone over their daily capacity and you're feeling generous. Edit this Page Page History More in this category Scripts approve: record an OCF group account request check: get details about an OCF user checkacct: find accounts by full name chpass: reset a user's password economode: turn economode on/off on the printers how: view the source of a script lab-wakeup: wake up suspended desktops migrate-vm: migrate VMs between hosts note: add notes to a user account ocf-tv: connect to the tv or modify the volume paper: view and modify print quotas pdf-open: unf*&^ bad PDFs if they won't print right signat: check signatory status sorry: disable an OCF account ssh-list: run command via SSH on many hosts simultaneously unsorry: re-enable a sorried account OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 