 PHP – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In PHP death , the OCF webserver, currently runs PHP 7.0 with the following non-standard packages installed: APCu (opcode caching) BC Math (arbitrary precision math) Bzip2 (compression library) DBA (database connector) GD (graphics library) MB String (string encoding) Mcrypt (cryptography library) MySQL (database connector) SQLite (database connector) SOAP (messaging protocol library) XML (markup parsing library) ZIP (compression library) For a full list of available modules, run phpinfo() from a PHP script. Plase contact us if you are missing a module that you need installed to get your application running. Custom PHP settings If the default PHP settings are problematic for your site (for example, if you require larger than normal file uploads), you can customize the PHP settings used by creating a .user.ini file inside your web root. In order to maintain compatibility with the OCF's PHP settings, we highly recommend not copying an entire php.ini * or .user.ini file from the web or from another server. Instead, we advise you to create an empty .user.ini and add only the settings you wish to change. Note that .user.ini filename should be used, as our webserver will not look for (per-user) php.ini files. Example .user.ini file The following file, located at ~/public_html/.user.ini , is an example of a good .user.ini file. ; raise max upload and POST sizes upload_max_filesize = 32M post_max_size = 32M ; raise maximum number of input variables max_input_vars = 20000 Security To prevent websites from being compromised, outbound HTTP requests via either curl_exec() or file_get_contents() are blocked. Consider using different frameworks if your website requires outbound HTTP requests. Edit this Page Page History More in this category Web hosting Backups/Archiving Django Flask Jekyll PHP Ruby on Rails WordPress OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 