 Running ocfweb – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Running ocfweb If you want to work on ocfweb on your Staff VM, it isn't as simple as cloning the repo and running make dev , unfortunately. In order to do so, you will need to add the ocfweb dev config to your Staff VM's Puppet configuration, so Puppet can install ocfweb 's config files. To do this, clone the puppet repo or go to /opt/puppet/env/<you> on lightning , and then in hieradata/nodes/ add the following lines to your staff VM's Hiera configuration: classes: - ocf_ocfweb::dev_config Take a look at the configs for fireball or raptors for examples. If you are in ocfroot you can push this directly to puppet and trigger a puppet run on your staffvm ( sudo puppet-trigger -fe <user> ) otherwise, push to your fork and submit a pull request and someone will merge it for you, after which you can trigger the puppet run on your VM. Furthermore, you will need to install the libcrack2-dev package so that the crypto libraries ocfweb depends on will successfully compile. Edit this Page Page History More in this category On your staff VM Installing and running ZNC Running ocfweb OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 