 Using Gmail with mail virtual hosting – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Using Gmail with mail virtual hosting Note: Your berkeley.edu address is really just a branded Gmail account, so these steps also work using your Berkeley email. You can use either a personal or Berkeley email for these steps. Make sure you can receive mail. This must be done before you can start sending mail. From the mail hosting configuration page , create a new mailing address for yourself. Make sure it forwards to your Gmail account: Once this is done, try sending yourself an email at your new address and make sure you receive it. Set a password for the email. From the same page as before, make sure you've set a secure password for the email address. This is the password you'll use when configuring Gmail to send as your account. From Gmail, go to the settings page and start adding a new address. From your Gmail account, click on the settings wheel in the top-right corner, then click "See all settings". At the top of the Settings page, click the tab that says "Accounts". From this page, click "Add another email address you own". Fill out the name and email. In the window that opened, fill out the first section with your name and the full email address. It's important to use the same email as in step 1. After filling this in, click "Next Step". Fill out the SMTP server details. Use the following settings: SMTP Server: smtp.ocf.berkeley.edu Username: The full email address , including @mygroup.studentorg.berkeley.edu at the end. Password: The password you chose in step 2. Port: 587 (the default) Secured connection: Using TLS (the default) It should look roughly like this: Click "Add Account" when done. Verify the address. You'll now be sent an email with a link to click to verify the address. This should have arrived at the same Gmail account. Click the link in that email and you're good to go! From now on, when sending email via Gmail, you'll have a drop-down menu which lets you select the "From" address, like this: If you use the Gmail app on your iPhone or Android device, you'll be able to select the From address there as well. Having trouble with the above steps? If you're stuck and can't figure out what's wrong, feel free to drop by our staff hours for in-person help! As a last resort, you can also email us for assistance. If you do this, please provide as much detail as possible, including screenshots, the email you're trying to use, and the steps you took. (But please do not send us your password!) Edit this Page Page History More in this category Mail virtual hosting for student groups Using Gmail with mail virtual hosting OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 