 Lab reservation policy (staff expectations) – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Lab reservation policy (staff expectations) As promulgated by the GMs on November 06, 2017 Should the OCF lab be closed for the event requested, OCF staff (excluding those at the front desk) should remain outside the OCF lab during the time requested. Those at the front desk will continue to require that Cal ID’s be shown to gain access to the OCF. However, should Staff also agree to respond to all student group requests within one week and one day of their form submission as it will need to be approved by the OCF’s Board of Directors. It is likely that requests will be accepted that follow some base rules. Firstly, the person who registers for the group MUST be a signatory of the organization wishing to reserve the lab. In addition, the lab should not be reserved for more than two hours within our standard operating times. Groups are more likely to be approved if they demonstrate a specific need to use our computers instead of any other space -- the manner in which our technology is utilized should be mentioned in the reservation form. Edit this Page Page History More in this category Staff policies Keycard policy Lab reservation policy (staff expectations) Staff policy OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 