 The OCF is hiring! – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In The OCF is hiring! October 30, 2018 We are looking to hire students to be OCF Operations staff for the 2019 academic year and onward! This includes two paid positions, Operations Assistant and Operations Manager, neither of which require any technical experience. These are very important roles, and without dedicated and passionate students to fill them, the OCF will not be able to stay open next semester. Operations Assistants Operations Assistants will have the following responsibilities: Staffing the front desk Maintaining lab security Assisting OCF members with using the lab Carrying out regular lab maintenance Working on projects that benefit the OCF Marketing and outreach Collecting feedback on OCF services Organizing events taking place in the lab Researching and applying for additional sources of funding for the OCF Attending regular meetings with the Operations Manager and the other Operations Assistants The salary for this position is $15 per hour. Operations Manager The Operations Manager has the same basic responsibilities as an Operations Assistant, but will also be responsible for managing OAs, their shifts and projects, and scheduling and leading meetings with OAs and OCF Volunteer staff. The OM position places a greater emphasis on managerial duties than time spent staffing the front desk. The salary for this position is $17 per hour. Application Applications close on Sunday, November 4th at 11:59 PM. Apply here ! About the OCF The OCF is an all-volunteer, student-run, Chartered Program of the Associated Students of the University of California (ASUC) dedicated to free computing for all University of California at Berkeley students, faculty, and staff. The mission of the OCF is to provide an environment where no member of Berkeley's campus community is denied the computer resources he or she seeks, to appeal to all members of the Berkeley campus community with unsatisfied computing needs, and to provide a place for those interested in computing to fully explore that interest. We provide a variety of services to the campus community, including the following: A spiffy computer lab in 171 MLK , visited by around 500 students per day, and over 10,000 per year Web, application, and email hosting for over 80% of student groups and thousands of individual students Free printing , used by over 5,000 students per semester OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 