 Database (MySQL) – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Database (MySQL) Table of Contents Policies Web-based interface for editing Creating a MySQL database Web-based tool SSH Terminal Reset Password Accessing MySQL Backing up a MySQL database Restoring a MySQL database from backup Using .my.cnf for passwordless access to MySQL The OCF provides each user with a MySQL database. Read the following sections for information about performing common MySQL tasks, and our rules and policies regarding MySQL. The actual server runs MariaDB , which is an active community-driven fork of MySQL. In practice, you shouldn't notice any important differences between the two, though MariaDB does contain some improvements . Policies We limit users to 1 database, and this database has the same name as your username. As a user of shared database server we ask you to respect the community and refrain from any activities that will hurt the quality of service for other users. We understand this policy is vague, so our suggested maximum size for databases is 1GB, and for individual tables 256 MB. Storing large amounts of data is not a problem unless the server has to perform complex queries on this data. Web-based interface for editing If you are looking for a familiar phpMyAdmin interface, visit https://pma.ocf.berkeley.edu . Creating a MySQL database We have two options to create a database using the terminal or our web management tool. Web-based tool Click here and type in your username and password. Select the option: makemysql — reset your MySQL database password, or create a new MySQL database and run the command. Note your password in a safe place. SSH Terminal Log into the OCF via SSH , at the terminal prompt enter the command makemysql . Hit yes to confirm the operation. Note your password in a safe place. Reset Password To reset a MySQL password simply follow the directions above for creating a MySQL database. This program WILL NOT DELETE an existing database. Accessing MySQL Assuming your database is set up, in order to access it (or allow a web application to access it), you will need 4 pieces of information: Database Host: mysql Database Name: {your OCF username} Database User: {your OCF username} Database password: {your database password} Note: Your database password is not the same as your OCF account password. It is a randomly generated password that was created when your database was created. To use your OCF MySQL database with a web application, enter the above information during the application's installation process. To connect to the OCF's MySQL server using the MySQL client on an OCF machine, simply run the command: mysql This command will prompt you for your MySQL database password. Backing up a MySQL database To backup your database (which you should probably do regularly), the basic command to use is mysqldump [username] > backup where username denotes your OCF username and backup is the name of the file you want to dump the contents of your database into. This command will prompt you for your MySQL password. To see more options, try running mysqldump --help Restoring a MySQL database from backup If you need to restore your database from a backup (dump file) you made previously, you simply need to connect to the database and run the SQL commands in the dump file. To do this from the command line, use mysql -D [username] < backup where backup is the name of the file that contains the dumped data. As usual, this command will prompt you for your MySQL password. Using .my.cnf for passwordless access to MySQL If you are using MySQL in a script or in another program, you will probably want to set it up so that the mysql call does not prompt for your password. While passing the -p option is the obvious way to achieve this, it is also very insecure because anyone on OCF can see the password while the mysql command is running. A better approach is to create a ~/.my.cnf file with proper permissions that contains your MySQL password. To do this, enter the following commands: make sure you replace dbpasswd with the MySQL password given to you when you ran makemysql. touch ~/.my.cnf cat >> ~/.my.cnf << EOF [client] password = dbpasswd EOF chmod 600 ~/.my.cnf And make sure that your .my.cnf has correct permissions by running $ ls -l ~/.my.cnf -rw------- 1 staff ocf 64 2005-11-15 16:16 /home/s/st/staff/.my.cnf Now the mysql command will automatically log you in, so you won't have to memorize or write down your MySQL password. Edit this Page Page History Table of Contents Policies Web-based interface for editing Creating a MySQL database Web-based tool SSH Terminal Reset Password Accessing MySQL Backing up a MySQL database Restoring a MySQL database from backup Using .my.cnf for passwordless access to MySQL More in this category Services Account Account policies Content removal policy Computer lab Lab reservation policy Printing Database (MySQL) Email High performance computing Slurm Mastodon Remote shell and file transfer (SSH/SFTP) Command reference Software Mirrors Virtual hosting (group.studentorg.berkeley.edu) Hosting badges Mail virtual hosting for student groups Using Gmail with mail virtual hosting Subdomain migration FAQ Web application hosting Node.js Python (Django, Flask, etc.) Ruby on Rails Web hosting Backups/Archiving Django Flask Jekyll PHP Ruby on Rails WordPress XMPP OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 