 Open Computing Facility at UC Berkeley Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In Welcome to the Open Computing Facility! The Open Computing Facility (OCF) is an all-volunteer student organization dedicated to free computing for all University of California, Berkeley students, faculty, and staff. We're passionate about open source and free software. Learn what we do Create an account Student Organizations Subdomain Migration The university is migrating berkeley.edu subdomains for student organizations to studentorg.berkeley.edu. See ocf.io/s/subdomain-migration for the actions that your group will need to take. OCF volunteers maintain services for the Berkeley community, including: A spiffy computer lab in 171 MLK Student Union Web & email hosting for thousands of student groups and individuals Free printing for all UC Berkeley students Shell accounts on our powerful on-campus servers High-performance computing on our GPU server ...and lots more! Check out the events on the OCF calendar or the OCF officers calendar . We hold weekly staff hours to provide assistance with account issues or with OCF services. Drop by to ask questions or just to hang out! Interested in free & open-source software? Our volunteer staff team helps create and maintain the OCF services you use. We're always on the lookout for new members interested in learning more about technology and open source! Learn more about getting involved! Or see a list of our technical projects . News from the staff team Planned Outage: All OCF Services, August 14 6 months, 3 weeks ago Planned Outage: OCF Mirrors, Aug. 11 6 months, 3 weeks ago More updates from the OCF » OCF Computer Lab The lab is located in 171 MLK Student Union . Upcoming Lab Hours Monday 9am–8pm Tuesday 9am–7pm Wednesday 9am–6pm See more lab hours » Account Tools Check Account Reset Password Staff Hours Monday 11:00AM - 2:00PM Staff Hours Wednesday 11:00AM - 1:00PM See more staff hours » OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 