 User disk quotas – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In User disk quotas Table of Contents Summary of useful commands View your own quota View another user's quota Print a summary of every user's disk quota Setting custom disk quotas Raising disk quotas for every user We use the standard Unix quota utilities to set disk quotas. Summary of useful commands All of these can be executed on filehost . Some of them also work on other servers which mount NFS. View your own quota quota View another user's quota quota -u daradib Print a summary of every user's disk quota repquota /dev/mapper/vg-homes Setting custom disk quotas Sometimes we want to set a custom disk quota for a staff member or other special snowflake (e.g. perhaps a user wants to host their research or something on OCF, which we encourage). To make an exception, just change their quota individually using edquota -u {username} . This will open a file in your editor showing their quota. Change the soft and hard columns to the number of kibibytes you wish to allocate, then save the file. You can disable the quota entirely by setting 0 for both the soft and hard limit, but this is not recommended because the next time somebody tries to raise disk quotas, it will "raise" your quota from "no quota" to the new quota. To mimic an infinite quota, just give the account a very large quota instead. Raising disk quotas for every user Are you trying to raise disk quotas for every user? Congratulations on finding this page! The SM who wrote this section spent a couple of hours trying to figure out how in the hell our automatic disk quotas were working, despite all internet documentation claiming there is no way to set default disk quotas. Indeed, you cannot configure a default quota. You can, however, set quotas for non-existent users! We've set quotas for user IDs 1000 through 99999 in order to mimic default users. To raise disk quotas, you can use a command like: soft_limit = "5242880" # 5 GiB in KiB hard_limit = "5767168" # 5.5 GiB in KiB for i in $( seq 1000 99999 ) ; do quotatool -b -Rr -q " $soft_limit " -l " $hard_limit " -u ": $i " /dev/mapper/vg-homes done The flags assure that we set a block limit (rather than an inode limit) and that we only raise quotas (so that we don't accidentally lower the quota of a special snowflake). The "soft limit" is like a warning limit; it can be configured to be enforced after a grace period, but we don't do this. In practice, we announce the limit to the public as "X GB", with a soft limit of "X GB" and a hard limit of "X+0.5 GB". Since the soft limit is never enforced, the real limit is the hard limit. Edit this Page Page History Table of Contents Summary of useful commands View your own quota View another user's quota Print a summary of every user's disk quota Setting custom disk quotas Raising disk quotas for every user More in this category Procedures Accounts Alumni account reset LDAP association Rename an account Adding users to the HPC cluster Backporting Debian packages Configuring virtual hosting Creating new hosts (servers, desktops) DMCA Editing docs Granting staff privileges Installing updates with apt-dater Live disk resizing Making OCF Google Apps accounts Manually creating XMPP accounts Printing maintenance Process accounting Restarting services SSHing into Supernova SSL certificates Setting up bridging and link aggregation Setting up mdraid on servers User disk quotas OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 