 The OCF is hiring! – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In The OCF is hiring! March 20, 2017 Update April 8, 2017: The application period is over and we are no longer accepting applicants. Thank you so much to everyone who applied! The OCF is making a big transition to having a completely self-staffed front desk next semester, and as part of that process, we are looking to hire students to be OCF Operations staff for the 2017-2018 academic year! This includes two paid positions, Operations Assistant and Operations Manager, neither of which require any technical experience. These are very important roles, and without dedicated and passionate students to fill them, the OCF will not be able to stay open next semester. Operations Assistants Operations Assistants will have the following responsibilities: Staffing the front desk Maintaining lab security Providing help to OCF members using the lab Carrying out regular lab maintenance Working on projects that benefit the OCF Marketing and outreach Collecting feedback on OCF services Organizing events taking place in the lab Researching and applying for additional sources of funding for the OCF Attending regular meetings with the Operations Manager and the other Operations Assistants This job position will be paid $13.75 per hour. See the full job description for more details. Operations Manager The Operations Manager will have the same responsibilities as the Operations Assistants (see above), except they will spend less time staffing the front desk of the OCF, and instead will spend the remaining time performing more managerial duties, such as leading meetings with the Operations Assistants, delegating projects, and scheduling shifts for the OCF front desk. This job will involve more responsibilities and use of communication skills than the Operations Assistant role, but it is also paid more, at $15.75 per hour. See the full job description for more details. Application Applications closed on Tuesday, April 7th at 11:59 PM. If you are interested in applying for a future position, you can contact us for more information. About the OCF The OCF provides free computing services for any students, faculty, or staff that lack access to the resources they need. Since its founding in 1989, the services offered by the OCF have grown massively, especially in the past couple years as the OCF moved to a much nicer new lab location in 171 MLK Student Union. Some of the variety of services we provide to the campus community include: A spiffy computer lab in 171 MLK , visited by around 500 students per day, and over 10,000 per year Web, application, and email hosting for over 80% of student groups and thousands of individual students Free printing , used by over 5,000 students per semester OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 