 chpass: reset a user's password – Open Computing Facility Toggle navigation Open Computing Facility Join About Us Our Organization Joining the Staff Team Lab Statistics Backend Infrastructure Services Computer Lab Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting SSH/SFTP (Shell) Email Hosting MySQL Database Software Mirrors High Performance Computing Staff Hours Help Contact Us Log In chpass: reset a user's password The preferred way of changing passwords is to do it online . This does not require a staffer to be present to change the user's password. Only use the command line chpass if this is not suitable. An example is, for group accounts or users that send notarized letters to the OCF. Technical Description Python script that changes a user's kerberos principal password using a specified staff/root principal. Usage ~$ chpass andromeda Changes user andromeda's password Sample Use Case You can run chpass on any server. raphtown@pileup:~$ chpass andromeda OCF Change Password Program WARNING: If you are resetting/changing a password for an OCF staff member, you acknowledge that you may potentially modify some of the privileges that the staff member may have. Changing password for: andromeda:*:1615:20:Andromeda Centauri,The OCF,,:/home/a/an/andromeda:/opt/share/utils/bin/sorried Let the user type in his new password (and verify it). Requirements are for passwords to be at least 8 characters long. It is helpful to indicate that nothing will show up when the user starts typing. Enter New Password: Verify password: Connecting to kerberos.ocf.berkeley.edu... Now type in your kerberos root principal password. If you don't have one you can't change passwords! Please enter the password for principal raphtown/root: andromeda@OCF.BERKELEY.EDU's Password: Verifying - andromeda@OCF.BERKELEY.EDU's Password: raphtown/root@OCF.BERKELEY.EDU's Password: Successfully changed heimdal kerberos principal Edit this Page Page History More in this category Scripts approve: record an OCF group account request check: get details about an OCF user checkacct: find accounts by full name chpass: reset a user's password economode: turn economode on/off on the printers how: view the source of a script lab-wakeup: wake up suspended desktops migrate-vm: migrate VMs between hosts note: add notes to a user account ocf-tv: connect to the tv or modify the volume paper: view and modify print quotas pdf-open: unf*&^ bad PDFs if they won't print right signat: check signatory status sorry: disable an OCF account ssh-list: run command via SSH on many hosts simultaneously unsorry: re-enable a sorried account OCF ♥ Linux , Kubernetes , Python , Nix , and Free/Open-Source Software. Sound like you? Join the staff team! About the OCF Overview Officers Official Documents Board Meeting Minutes Privacy Policy Account Tools Join the OCF Reset Password Manage My Account Services Computer Lab & Printing Web Hosting Application Hosting Email Hosting SSH/Remote Shell High Performance Computing Help and Support Status Blog Donate to the OCF Frequently Asked Questions User Documentation Staff Documentation Contact Us The Open Computing Facility is run entirely by student volunteers. Copyright © 1989–2025 Board of Directors of the Open Computing Facility. The Open Computing Facility is a Chartered Program of the ASUC. 